# Simple-Mail-Transfer-Protocol-SMTP
Both the SMTP-client and SMTP-server should have 2 components:  User agent (UA) Local MTA Communication between sender and the receiver :  The senders, user agent prepare the message and send it to the MTA. The MTA functioning is to transfer the mail across the network to the receivers MTA. To send mail, a system must have the client MTA, and to receive mail, a system must have a server MTA.   SENDING EMAIL:  Mail is sent by a series of request and response messages between the client and a server. The message which is sent across consists of a header and the body. A null line is used to terminate the mail header. Everything which is after the null line is considered as the body of the message which is a sequence of ASCII characters. The message body contains the actual information read by the receipt.   RECEIVING EMAIL:  The user agent at the server-side checks the mailboxes at a particular time of intervals. If any information is received it informs the user about the mail. When the user tries to read the mail it displays a list of mails with a short description of each mail in the mailbox. By selecting any of the mail user can view its contents on the terminal.  Some SMTP Commands:  HELO – Identifies the client to the server, fully qualified domain name, only sent once per session MAIL – Initiate a message transfer, fully qualified domain of originator RCPT – Follows MAIL, identifies an addressee, typically the fully qualified name of the addressee and for multiple addressees use one RCPT for each addressee DATA – send data line by line
